> This article is converted from Wikipedia: [댄 라인슈타인](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/댄_라인슈타인).


**댄 라인슈타인**()은 영국 출신의 안과 의사, 생명공학기술자이다.\[1\] 댄 라인슈타인은 [영국](../Page/영국.md "wikilink")과 [미국](../Page/미국.md "wikilink"), [캐나다](../Page/캐나다.md "wikilink") 3개국의 안과 전문의 자격을 보유하고 있으며, [미국](../Page/미국.md "wikilink") 콜롬비아 의과대학과 [파리](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/파리 "wikilink") 캥즈-뱅 국립병원의 교수이자 세계 50여개의 안과학 심포지움 심사위원으로 활동하고 있다.\[2\] 현재 [미국](../Page/미국.md "wikilink")과 [캐나다](../Page/캐나다.md "wikilink")의 Reinstein Institute와 [영국](../Page/영국.md "wikilink")의 London Vision Clinic을 운영하고 있으며, [독일](../Page/독일.md "wikilink")의 ASA LASEK Organisation 연구에 참여하고 있다.

## 학창 시절

[1981년](../Page/1981년.md "wikilink")부터 [영국](../Page/영국.md "wikilink") 캠브리지 의과대학에 입학하여 [1992년](../Page/1992년.md "wikilink")까지 [영국](../Page/영국.md "wikilink"), [미국](../Page/미국.md "wikilink"), [캐나다](../Page/캐나다.md "wikilink")의 안과학 전문의 자격증을 모두 취득하였다.

## 연구 개발

댄 라인슈타인은 시력교정 기술의 권위자로 세계에서 가장 정밀한 [각막](../Page/각막.md "wikilink") 측정기인 “Artemis Scanner” 원형을 개발하였고, 독일 [칼 자이스](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/칼_자이스 "wikilink")(Carl Zeiss)의 시력교정 기기인 MEL80 개발팀으로도 참여하였다. [라식](../Page/라식.md "wikilink") 수술로 인한 [굴절 이상을](../Page/굴절_이상.md "wikilink") 안전하게 교정할 수 있는 신 알고리즘을 개발하는 등 안공학 기술 전문가로 활동하며 현재까지 수십여개의 미국/유럽/세계 특허를 보유 중이다.

## 의학계 활동

[1994년](../Page/1994년.md "wikilink")부터 세계 50여개의 안과학 심포지움에서 심사위원으로 활동하고 있으며, 현재 독일 물리학 박사 [에카르트 슈뢰더](../Page/에카르트_슈뢰더.md "wikilink")(Eckhard Schroeder), 독일 의학 박사 [스벤 리](../Page/스벤_리.md "wikilink")(Sven Lee), 남아프리카 공화국 의학 박사 [셀릭 퍼시 아모일즈](../Page/셀릭_퍼시_아모일즈.md "wikilink")(Selig Percy Amoils)와 시력교정 기술관련 공동 연구를 진행 중이다.\[3\]

## 연구 자료

  - Mathematical model to compare the relative tensile strength of the cornea after PRK, LASIK and Small Incision Lenticule Extraction (SMILE). *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2013*
  - Improved effectiveness of trans-epithelial phototherapeutic keratectomy versus topography-guided ablation degraded by epithelial compensation on irregular stromal surfaces. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2013*
  - Comparison of Postoperative Vault Height Predictability Using White-to-White or Sulcus Diameter–based Sizing for the Visian Implantable Collamer Lens. '' Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2013''
  - Femtosecond Laser Technology in Corneal Refractive Surgery: A Review. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2012*
  - Accuracy of refractive outcomes in myopic and hyperopic laser in situ keratomileusis: Manifest versus aberrometric refraction. *Journal of Cataract and Refractive Surgery. 2012*
  - Transitioning from mechanical microkeratome to femtosecond laser flap creation: visual outcomes of an experienced and a novice LASIK surgeon. *Journal of Cataract and Refractive Surgery. 2012*
  - Stability of epithelial thickness during 5 minutes immersion in 33˚C \*9% saline using very high-frequency digital ultrasound. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2012*
  - Refractive and topographic errors in topography-guided ablation produced by epithelial compensation predicted by three-dimensional Artemis very high-frequency digital ultrasound stromal and epithelial thickness mapping. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2012*
  - LASIK for the correction of presbyopia in emmetropic patients using aspheric ablation profiles and a micro-monovision protocol with the Carl Zeiss Meditec MEL80 and VisuMax. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2012*
  - Spherical Aberration Induction by MEL80 Aspheric and Non-aspheric Profiles. *Optometry and Vision Science. 2012*
  - Short term LASIK outcomes using the Technolas 217C excimer laser and Hansatome microkeratome in 46,708 eyes treated between 1998 and 2001. *British Journal of Ophthalmology. 2012*
  - Anterior segment biometry: A review of resolution and repeatability data. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2012*
  - The history of LASIK. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2012*
  - Change in epithelial thickness profile 24 hours and longitudinally for 1 year after myopic LASIK: Three-dimensional display with Artemis very high-frequency digital ultrasound. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2012*
  - Is topography-guided ablation profile centered on the corneal vertex better than wavefront-guided ablation profile centered on the entrance pupil. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2012*
  - Repeatability of intraoperative central corneal and residual stromal thickness measurement using a handheld ultrasound pachymeter. *Journal of Cataract and Refractive Surgery. 2012*
  - Comparison of residual stromal bed thickness measurement among very high-frequency digital ultrasound, intraoperative handheld ultrasound and optical coherence tomography. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2012*
  - Consultation section – refractive surgical problem. *Journal of Cataract and Refractive Surgery. 2011*
  - Inaccuracies in reporting the accuracy of flap creating devices. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2011*
  - Standardized graphs and terms for refractive surgery results. *Cornea. 2011*
  - Epithelial thickness up to 26 years after radial keratotomy: Three-dimensional display with Artemis very high-frequency digital ultrasound. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2011*
  - Aspheric ablation profile for presbyopic corneal treatment using the MEL80 and CRS Master Laser Blended Vision module. *Journal of Emmetropia. 2011*
  - LASIK Flap thickness profile and reproducibility of the standard vs zero compression Hansatome microkeratomes: Three-dimensional display with Artemis VHF digital ultrasound. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2011*
  - Ocular biomechanics: Measurement parameters and terminology. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2011*
  - Epithelial thickness profile as a method to evaluate the effectiveness of collagen cross-linking treatment after corneal ectasia. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2011*
  - Very high-frequency digital ultrasound evaluation of topography-wavefront-guided repair after radial keratotomy. *Journal of Cataract and Refractive Surgery. 2011*
  - LASIK for myopic astigmatism and presbyopia using non-linear aspheric micro-monovision with the Carl Zeiss Meditec MEL 80 platform. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2011*
  - Standardized graphs and terms for refractive surgery results. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2011*
  - Standardized graphs and terms for refractive surgery results. *Journal of Cataract and Refractive Surgery. 2011*
  - Corneal ablation depth readout of the MEL80 excimer laser compared to Artemis Three-dimensional very high-frequency digital ultrasound stromal measurements. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2010*
  - Bias. Journal of Refractive Surgery. *2010*
  - Surgically induced corneal necrotizing keratitis following LASIK in a patient with inflammatory bowel disease. *Journal of Cataract and Refractive Surgery. 2010*
  - Repeatability of layered corneal pachymetry with the artemis very high-frequency digital ultrasound arc-scanner. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2010*
  - Epithelial thickness after hyperopic LASIK: Three-dimensional display with Artemis very high-frequency digital ultrasound. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2010*
  - Epithelial, stromal and total corneal thickness in keratoconus: Three-dimensional display with Artemis very high-frequency digital ultrasound. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2010*
  - Accuracy and reproducibility of Artemis central flap thickness and visual outcomes of LASIK with the Carl Zeiss Meditec VisuMax femtosecond laser and MEL 80 excimer laser platforms. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2010*
  - Percentage thickness increase and absolute difference from thinnest to describe thickness profile. *Journal of Refractive Surgery, 2010*
  - Graphic reporting of outcomes of refractive surgery. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2009*
  - Stromal thickness in the normal cornea: Three-dimensional display with Artemis very high-frequency digital ultrasound. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2009*
  - Epithelial, stromal and corneal pachymetry changes during orthokeratology. *Optometry and Vision Science. 2009*
  - Stability of LASIK in corneas with topographic suspect keratoconus, with keratoconus excluded by epithelial thickness mapping. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2009*
  - Corneal epithelial thickness profile in the diagnosis of keratoconus. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2009*
  - Combined corneal topography and corneal wavefront data in the treatment of corneal irregularity and refractive error in LASIK or PRK using the Carl Zeiss Meditec MEL80 and CRS Master. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2009*
  - Effect of corneal hydration on ultrasound velocity and backscatter. *Ultrasound in Medicine & Biology. 2009*
  - Epithelial thickness profile changes induced by myopic LASIK as measured by Artemis very high-frequency digital ultrasound. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2009*
  - Correlation of anterior chamber angle and ciliary sulcus diameters with white-to-white corneal diameter in high myopes using Artemis VHF digital ultrasound. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2009*
  - LASIK for hyperopic astigmatism and presbyopia using micro-monovision with the Carl Zeiss Meditec MEL80 platform. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2009*
  - Epithelial thickness in the normal cornea: Three-dimensional display with Artemis very high-frequency digital ultrasound. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2008*
  - Diurnal variation of higher order aberrations in human eyes. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2007*
  - Valsalva-like retinopathy following hyperopic laser in situ keratomileusis. *Ophthalmic Surgery, Lasers and Imaging. 2006*
  - Probability model of the inaccuracy of residual stromal thickness prediction to reduce the risk of ectasia after LASIK, part II: Quantifying population risk. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2006*
  - Probability model of the inaccuracy of residual stromal thickness prediction to reduce the risk of ectasia after LASIK, part I: Quantifying individual risk. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2006*
  - Have you seen the 10-year long-term safety data on LASIK. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2006*
  - Direct residual stromal thickness measurement for assessing suitability for LASIK enhancement by Artemis very high-frequency digital ultrasound arc scanning. *Journal of Cataract and Refractive Surgery. 2006*
  - Combined Artemis very high-frequency digital ultrasound-assisted transepithelial phototherapeutic keratectomy and wavefront-guided treatment following multiple refractive treatments. *Journal of Cataract and Refractive Surgery. 2006*
  - Accuracy, repeatability and reproducibility of Artemis VHF digital ultrasound arc-scan lateral dimension measurements. *Journal of Cataract and Refractive Surgery. 2006*
  - Artemis very high-frequency digital ultrasound-guided repositioning of a free cap after laser in situ keratomileusis. *Journal of Cataract and Refractive Surgery. 2006*
  - Evaluating microkeratome efficacy by 3D corneal lamellar flap thickness accuracy and reproducibility using Artemis VHF digital ultrasound arc-scanning. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2006*
  - Accuracy of the WASCA aberrometer refraction compared to manifest refraction in myopia. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2006*
  - Biomechanics of corneal refractive surgery. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2006*
  - Orbscan global pachymetry: Analysis of repeated measures. *Optometry and Vision Science. 2005*
  - Phakic intraocular lenses. *Survey of Ophthalmology. 2005*
  - A new night vision disturbances parameter and contrast sensitivity as indicators of success in wavefront-guided enhancement. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2005*
  - VHF digital ultrasound three-dimensional scanning in the diagnosis of myopic regression after corneal refractive surgery. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2005*
  - Conservation of corneal tissue with wavefront-guided laser in situ keratomileusis. *Journal of Cataract and Refractive Surgery. 2005*
  - Very high frequency ultrasound biometry of the anterior and posterior chamber diameter. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2004*
  - Consultation section – a case of corneal scarring after LASIK. *Journal of Cataract and Refractive Surgery. 2001*
  - Epithelial and stromal changes induced by Intacs examined by three-dimensional very high-frequency digital ultrasound. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2001*
  - Arc-scanning very high-frequency digital ultrasound for 3D pachymetric mapping of the corneal epithelium and stroma in laser in situ keratomileusis. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 2000*
  - Avoiding serious corneal complications of laser assisted in situ keratomileusis and photorefractive keratectomy. *Ophthalmology. 2000*
  - Accuracy of Orbscan total optical power maps in detecting the refractive change after myopic laser in-situ keratomileusis. *Journal of Cataract and Refractive Surgery. 1999*
  - Visualizing VHF ultrasound of the human cornea. *Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), Computer Graphics & Applications. 1999*
  - Very high-frequency ultrasound corneal analysis identifies anatomic correlates of optical complications of lamellar refractive surgery. *Ophthalmology. 1999*
  - The shape of Bowman's layer in the human cornea. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 1998*
  - Very high-frequency ultrasound analysis of a new phakic posterior chamber intraocular lens in situ. *American Journal of Ophthalmology. 1998*
  - Three-dimensional ultrasound imaging – clinical applications. *Ophthalmology. 1998*
  - Very-high frequency ultrasonic imaging and spectral assays of the eye. *Acoustical Imaging. 1997*
  - Improved system for sonographic imaging and biometry of the cornea. *Journal of Ultrasound in Medicine. 1997*
  - Iridoschisis: High-frequency ultrasound imaging. Evidence for a genetic defect. *British Journal of Ophthalmology. 1996*
  - High frequency ultrasound imaging in pupillary block glaucoma. *British Journal of Ophthalmology. 1995*
  - High-frequency ultrasound spectral parameter imaging of anterior corneal scars. *Contact Lens Association of Ophthalmologists Journal. 1995*
  - High frequency ultrasound evaluation of radial keratotomy incisions. *Journal of Cataract and Refractive Surgery. 1995*
  - Have you ever seen a pachoderm. *Journal of Refractive Surgery. 1995*
  - High-frequency ultrasound corneal pachymetry in the assessment of corneal scars for therapeutic planning. *Contact Lens Association of Ophthalmologists Journal. 1994*
  - Corneal pachymetric topography. *Ophthalmology. 1994*
  - Epithelial and corneal thickness measurements by high-frequency ultrasound digital signal processing. *Ophthalmology. 1994*
  - High-frequency ultrasound imaging and spectral analysis in traumatic hyphema. *Ophthalmology, 1993*
  - High-frequency ultrasound measurement of the thickness of the corneal epithelium. *Refractive and Corneal Surgery, 1993*
  - High-frequency ultrasound quantitative analyses of corneal scarring following Excimer Laser Keratectomy. *Archives of Ophthalmology, 1993*
  - Correctable undetected visual acuity deficit in patients aged 65 and over attending an accident and emergency department. *British Journal of Ophthalmology. 1993*
  - High-frequency ultrasound digital signal processing for biometry of the cornea in planning phototherapeutic keratectomy. *Archives of Ophthalmology. 1993*
  - Psychiatric screening of admissions to an accident and emergency ward. *British Journal of Psychiatry. 1991*
  - Convulsive Tic Disorder: Georges Gilles de la Tourette, Guinon and Grasset on the phenomenology and psychopathology of Gilles De la Tourette Syndrome. *Behavioural Neurology. 1991*

## 각주

<references/>

[분류:1962년 태어남](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:1962년_태어남 "wikilink") [분류:살아있는 사람](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:살아있는_사람 "wikilink") [분류:컬럼비아 대학교 교수](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:컬럼비아_대학교_교수 "wikilink")

1.  [Reinstein 박사의 출생과 업적](http://www.ukiscrs.org.uk/dan-reinstein)
2.  [Prof.Dan Reinstein Details](http://www.lasik-eyes.co.uk/Surgeons/SurgeonDetails.aspx?SurgeonId=58)
3.