> This article is converted from Wikipedia: [ ](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/_).


**데이비드 S. 닥커리(**David S. Dockery, 1952년 10월 28일 - )은 일리노이드 주 디어필드에 있는  트리니티 국제 대학교의 총장이다. . 2014년 2월 28일부터 총장직을 수행하고 있으며 그 전에는 유니온 대학에서 총장을 했다.  40개 이상의 저작을 집필했다.

## 교육

  - University of Alabama-Birmingham - Bachelor's degree
  - Grace Theological Seminary - Master's degree
  - Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary - Master's degree
  - Texas Christian University - Master's degree
  - University of Texas system - Ph.D. in Humanities

## 작품

  -  The Doctrine of the Bible (Nashville: Convention Press, 1991; reprint, Nashville: Seminary Extension, 1998).
  - Biblical Interpretation Then and Now (Grand Rapids: Baker, 1992, reprint 2000).
  - Seeking the Kingdom: The Sermon on the Mount Made Practical, co-authored with David E. Garland (Wheaton: Harold Shaw, 1992).
  - Christian Scripture: An Evangelical Perspective on Inspiration, Authority, and Interpretation (Nashville: B\&H Publishing, 1995). Also translated into Romanian. Ephesians: One Body in Christ (Nashville: Convention, 1996). Our Christian Hope: Bible Answers to Questions About the Future (Nashville: Lifeway Press, 1998) Basic Christian Beliefs (Shepherd's Notes Series; Nashville: B\&H Publishing, 1999). Holman Guide to Interpreting the Bible, with George H. Guthrie (Nashville: B\&H Publishing, 2004). Building Bridges, with Timothy George (Nashville: Convention Press, 2007) Renewing Minds: Serving Church and Society Through Christian Higher Education (Nashville: B\&H Publishing Group, 2007; Second Edition 2008) Southern Baptist Consensus and Renewal: A Biblical, Historical and Theological Proposal (Nashville: B\&H Publishing, 2008) Ecclesiastes (Nashville: Lifeway Press, 2011) The Great Tradition of Christian Thinking, with Timothy George (Wheaton: Crossway, 2012) Books edited Baptist Theologians, co-editor and contributor with Timothy George (Nashville: Broadman, 1990) chapter on "Millard J. Erickson." Revell Bible Dictionary, consulting editor (Old Tappan: Fleming H. Revell, 1990). People of God: Essays on the Believers' Church, co-editor with Paul Basden (Nashville: Broadman, 1991). New Testament Criticism and Interpretation, co-editor and contributor with David Alan Black (Grand Rapids: Zondervan, 1991) chapter on "The History of New Testament Interpretation." Beyond the Impasse?: Scripture, Interpretation, and Theology in Baptist Life, co-editor with Robison B. James (Nashville: Broadman, 1992) chapter on "A People of the Book: The Crisis of Biblical Authority Today." Holman Bible Handbook, general editor and contributor (Nashville: Holman, 1992) sections on "Pauline Letters," "History of Biblical Interpretation," "Christian Faith and the Christian Community," and "The Lord's Supper." The Concise Bible Dictionary, consulting editor (Old Tappan: Fleming H. Revell, 1992). Holman Book of Biblical Charts, Maps and Reconstructions, contributing editor (Nashville: Holman, 1993). Southern Baptists and American Evangelicals: The Conversation Continues, editor and contributor (Nashville: Broadman, 1993) chapters on "Introduction to Southern Baptists and American Evangelicals" and "Evangelical Responses to Southern Baptists." Foundations for Biblical Interpretation, co-editor and contributor with Robert B. Sloan and Kenneth A. Mathews (Nashville: Broadman and Holman, 1994) chapter on "The Study and Interpretation of the Bible." The Challenge of Postmodernism: An Evangelical Engagement, editor and contributor (Grand Rapids: Baker/BridgePoint, 1995, revised edition 2001) chapter on "The Challenge of Postmodernism." The Best of A. T. Robertson, compiler (Nashville: Broadman and Holman, 1996). New Dimensions in Evangelical Theology: Essays in Honor of Millard J. Erickson, editor (Downers Grove: InterVarsity, 1998). Chapter on "Millard J. Erickson." Holman Concise Bible Commentary, general editor (Nashville: B\&H Publishing, 1998). Section on the "Pauline Epistles." Translated into Spanish. The Integration of Faith and Learning: A Basic Bibliography, editor and compiler (1998). The Future of Christian Higher Education, co-editor with David P. Gushee (B\&H Publishing, 1999). Chapters on "The Future of Christian Higher Education: An Introduction," "The Great Commandment As a Paradigm for Christian Higher Education," "The Role of Professional Education in Christian Higher Education," and "The Grandeur of God and Real Education: A Strategy for Integrating Faith in a Post-Christian Culture." New Testament Interpretation, co-edited with David Alan Black (Nashville: B\&H Publishing, 2000). Chapter on the History of New Testament Interpretation. Theologians of the Baptist Tradition, co-edited with Timothy George (Nashville: B\&H Publishing, 2001). Chapters on John A. Broadus, A.T. Robertson, and Hershel Hobbs. Shaping a Christian Worldview, co-edited with Greg Thornbury (Nashville: B\&H Publishing, 2002). Chapter on Shaping a Christian Worldview. John A. Broadus: A Living Legacy, co-edited with Roger Duke (Nashville: B\&H Publishing, 2008). Chapter on "Mighty in the Scriptures." Southern Baptist Identity: An Evangelical Denomination Faces the Future (Wheaton: Crossway, 2009). Chapter on "Southern Baptists in the 21st Century." Christian Leadership Essentials, editor (Nashville: B\&H Publishing, 2011) Southern Baptists, Evangelicals and the Future of Denominationalism, editor (Nashville: B\&H Publishing, 2011) Faith and Learning: A Handbook for Christian Higher Education, editor (Nashville: B\&H Publishing, 2012)

[분류:1952년 태어남](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:1952년_태어남 "wikilink") [분류:미국의 대학 총장](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:미국의_대학_총장 "wikilink") [분류:살아있는 사람](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:살아있는_사람 "wikilink")