> This article is converted from Wikipedia: [ ](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/_).


**루이스 J. 이그나로**(, [1941년](../Page/1941년.md "wikilink") [5월 31일](../Page/5월_31일.md "wikilink") \~ )는 [미국](../Page/미국.md "wikilink")의 [약리학](../Page/약리학.md "wikilink")자이다. 1998년에 [포유류](../Page/포유류.md "wikilink")계에서 일시적인 세포 신호로서의 [일산화 질소를](../Page/일산화_질소.md "wikilink") 발견한 공로로 [로버트 F. 퍼치고트](../Page/로버트_F._퍼치고트.md "wikilink"), [페리드 뮤라드와](../Page/페리드_뮤라드.md "wikilink") 함께 [노벨 생리학·의학상을](../Page/노벨_생리학·의학상.md "wikilink") 수상했다.

## 학력

  - 1954\~1958년: 롱비치 고등학교 (졸업)
  - 1958\~1962년: 컬럼비아 대학교 약리학과 (학사)
  - 1962\~1966년: 미네소타 대학교 대학원 약리학과 (박사)

## 수상 경력

  - 1998년 : 노벨 생리학·의학상

## 저서

  - *NO More Heart Disease: How Nitric Oxide Can Prevent – Even Reverse – Heart Disease and Strokes.* New York: St. Martin's Press (2005). .
  - *Nitric Oxide: Biology and Pathobiology.* Academic Press (2009). .
  - *Health Is Wealth: 10 Power Nutrients That Increase Your Odds Of Living To 100.* Health Value Publications (2009). .
  - *Health Is Wealth: Performance Nutrition.* Health Value Publications (2011). .
  - *Survival of the Firmest: UCLA Doctors Describe Ten Steps to Better Erections, a Longer Life and Reversing Erectile Dysfunction (ED).* CreateSpace (2011). .

## 중요 출판물

  - 1979 CA Gruetter, BK Barry, DB McNamara, DY Gruetter, PJ Kadowitz and LJ Ignarro. Relaxation of bovine coronary artery and activation of coronary arterial guanylate cyclase by nitric oxide, nitroprusside and a carcinogenic nitrosoamine. J. Cyclic Nucl. Res. 5: 211–224.
  - 1980 LJ Ignarro and CA Gruetter. Requirement of thiols for activation of coronary arterial guanylate cyclase by glyceryl trinitrate and sodium nitrite: Possible involvement of S-nitrosothiols. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 631: 221–231.
  - 1981 BT Mellion, LJ Ignarro, EH Ohlstein, EG Pontecorvo, AL Hyman and PJ Kadowitz. Evidence for the inhibitory role of guanosine 3’,5’-monophosphate in ADP-induced human platelet aggregation. Blood 57: 946–955.
  - 1981 LJ Ignarro, H Lippton, JC Edwards, WH Baricos, AL Hyman, PJ Kadowitz and CA Gruetter. Mechanism of vascular smooth muscle relaxation by organic nitrates, nitrites, nitroprusside and nitric oxide: Evidence for the involvement of Snitrosothiols as active intermediates. J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 218: 739–749.
  - 1982 MS Wolin, KS Wood and LJ Ignarro. Guanylate cyclase from bovine lung: a kinetic analysis of the regulation of the purified soluble enzyme by protoporphyrin IX, heme and nitrosyl-heme. J. Biol. Chem. 257: 13312-13320.
  - 1984 LJ Ignarro, B Ballot and KS Wood. Regulation of guanylate cyclase activity by porphyrins and metalloporphyrins. J. Biol. Chem. 259: 6201–6207.
  - 1986 LJ Ignarro, RG Harbison, KS Wood and PJ Kadowitz. Activation of purified soluble guanylate cyclase by endothelium-derived relaxing factor from intrapulmonary artery and vein: stimulation by acetylcholine, bradykinin and arachidonic acid. J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 237: 893–900.
  - 1987 LJ Ignarro, RE Byrns, GM Buga and KS Wood. Endothelium-derived relaxing factor from pulmonary artery and vein possesses pharmacological and chemical properties that are identical to those for nitric oxide radical. Circ. Res. 61: 866–879.
  - 1987 LJ Ignarro, GM Buga, KS Wood, RE Byrns and G Chaudhuri. Endothelium-derived relaxing factor produced and released from artery and vein is nitric oxide. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84: 9265–9269.
  - 1990 LJ Ignarro, PA Bush, GM Buga, KS Wood, JM Fukuto and J Rajfer. Nitric oxide and cyclic GMP formation upon electrical field stimulation cause relaxation of corpus cavernosum smooth muscle. Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 170: 843–850.
  - 1992 J Rajfer, WJ Aronson, PA Bush, FJ Dorey and LJ Ignarro. Nitric oxide as a mediator of relaxation of the corpus cavernosum in response to nonadrenergic, noncholinergic neurotransmission. N. Engl. J. Med. 326: 90–94.
  - 1994 JM Griscavage, JM Fukuto, Y Komori and LJ Ignarro. Nitric oxide inhibits neuronal nitric oxide synthase by interacting with the heme prosthetic group: role of tetrahydrobiopterin in modulating the inhibitory action of nitric oxide. J. Biol. Chem. 269: 21644-21649.
  - 1994 AJ Hobbs, JM Fukuto and LJ Ignarro. Formation of free nitric oxide from Larginine by nitric oxide synthase: direct enhancement of generation by superoxide dismutase. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91: 10992-10996.
  - 1996 JM Griscavage, S Wilk and LJ Ignarro. Inhibitors of the proteasome pathway interfere with induction of nitric oxide synthase in macrophages by blocking activation of nuclear factor-kappa B. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93:3308–3312.
  - 1999 HC Champion, TJ Bivalacqua, AL Hyman, LJ Ignarro, WJG Hellstrom and PJ Kadowitz. Gene transfer of endothelial nitric oxide synthase to the penis augments erectile responses in the aged rat. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 96:11648-11652.
  - 2001 LJ Ignarro, GM Buga, LH Wei, PM Bauer, G Wu and P del Soldato. Role of the arginine-nitric oxide pathway in the regulation of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 98: 4202–4208.
  - 2001 PM Bauer, GM Buga, JM Fukuto, AE Pegg and LJ Ignarro. Nitric oxide inhibits ornithine decarboxylase via S-nitrosylation of cysteine 360 in the active site of the enzyme. J. Biol. Chem. 276: 34458-34464.
  - 2001 PM Bauer, GM Buga and LJ Ignarro. Role of p42/p44 mitogen-activated protein kinase and p21waf1/cip1 in the regulation of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation by nitric oxide. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 98: 12802-12807.
  - 2003 F de Nigris, LO Lerman, SW Ignarro, G Sica, A Lerman, W Palinski, LJ Ignarro and C Napoli. Beneficial effects of antioxidants and L-arginine on oxidation-sensitive gene expression and endothelial NO synthase activity at sites of disturbed shear stress. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 100:1420–1425.
  - 2003 D Sumi and LJ Ignarro. Estrogen-related receptor alpha 1 up-regulates endothelial nitric oxide synthase expression. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 100:14451-14456.
  - 2004 T Hayashi, D Sumi, PA Juliet, H Matsui-Hirai, Y Asai-Tanaka, H Kano, A Fukatsu, T Tsunekawa, A Miyazaki, A Iguchi and LJ Ignarro. Gene transfer of endothelial NO synthase, but not eNOS plus inducible NOS, regressed atherosclerosis in rabbits. Cardiovasc. Res. 61:339–351.
  - 2004 C Napoli, SW Ignarro, F de Nigris, LO Lerman, L Rossi, C Guarino, G Mansueto, F Di Tuoro, O Pignalosa, G De Rosa, V Sica and LJ Ignarro. Long-term combined beneficial effects of physical training and metabolic treatment on atherosclerosis in hypercholesterolemic mice. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 101:8797–8802.
  - 2005 HJ Garban, D Marquez-Garban, R Pietras and LJ Ignarro. Rapid nitric oxidemediated S-nitrosylation of estrogen receptor: Regulation of estrogen-dependent gene transcription. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 102:2632–2636.

## 관련 항목

  - [아르기닌](../Page/아르기닌.md "wikilink")
  - [일산화 질소](../Page/일산화_질소.md "wikilink")

## 외부 링크

  - [The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1998 - Louis J. Ignarro](https://www.nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/medicine/laureates/1998/ignarro-bio.html) - 노벨 재단

  - [공식 웹사이트](https://web.archive.org/web/20081205084520/http://www.drignarro.com/)

[분류:1941년 태어남](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:1941년_태어남 "wikilink") [분류:살아있는 사람](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:살아있는_사람 "wikilink") [분류:미국의 약리학자](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:미국의_약리학자 "wikilink") [분류:미국의 노벨상 수상자](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:미국의_노벨상_수상자 "wikilink") [분류:노벨 생리학·의학상 수상자](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:노벨_생리학·의학상_수상자 "wikilink") [분류:미국 과학 아카데미의 회원](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:미국_과학_아카데미의_회원 "wikilink") [분류:컬럼비아 대학교 동문](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:컬럼비아_대학교_동문 "wikilink") [분류:미네소타 대학교 동문](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:미네소타_대학교_동문 "wikilink") [분류:캘리포니아 대학교 로스앤젤레스 교수](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:캘리포니아_대학교_로스앤젤레스_교수 "wikilink") [분류:툴레인 대학교 교수](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:툴레인_대학교_교수 "wikilink") [분류:이탈리아계 미국인](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:이탈리아계_미국인 "wikilink") [분류:브루클린 출신](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:브루클린_출신 "wikilink")