> This article is converted from Wikipedia: [](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/).


**마호가니유대하늘다람쥐** 또는 **마호가니주머니하늘다람쥐**(*Petaurus gracilis*)는 [주머니하늘다람쥐과](../Page/주머니하늘다람쥐과.md "wikilink")에 속하는 [유대류](../Page/유대류.md "wikilink")의 일종이다. 멸종위기종으로 분류되고 있으며,\[1\] [오스트레일리아](../Page/오스트레일리아.md "wikilink") [퀸즐랜드주](../Page/퀸즐랜드주.md "wikilink") 해안의 좁은 지역에 분포하고 있다.

## 각주

  - The *Australian Faunal Directory*
  - Van Dyck, S. (1993). The taxonomy and distribution of *Petaurus gracilis* (Marsupialia: Petauridae), with notes on its ecology and distribution status, *Mem. Queensland Museum* **33:** 77-122
  - Van Dyck, S. (1995). Mahogany Glider *Petaurus gracilis*. pp. 232–233 *in* Strahan, R. (ed.) *The Mammals of Australia*. The National Photographic Index of Australian Wildlife. Sydney: Reed New Holland 2nd Edition 756 pp.
  - Jackson, S.J. (2000). Home range and den use of the Mahogany Glider (Petaurus gracilis). *Wildlife Research* **27:** 49-60.
  - Tisdell, C., Wilson, C. and Swarna Nantha, H. (2005). Policies for saving a rare Australian glider: economics and ecology. *Biological Conservation* **123(2):** 237-248.
  - Cronin, Leonard — "*Key Guide to Australian Mammals*", published by Reed Books Pty. Ltd., Sydney, 1991
  - van der Beld, John — "*Nature of Australia — A portrait of the island continent*", co-published by William Collins Pty. Ltd. and ABC Enterprises for the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, Sydney, 1988 (revised edition 1992),
  - Russell, Rupert — "*Spotlight on Possums*", published by University of Queensland Press, St. Lucia, Queensland, 1980,
  - Troughton, Ellis — "*Furred Animals of Australia*", published by Angus and Robertson (Publishers) Pty. Ltd, Sydney, in 1941 (revised edition 1973),
  - Morcombe, Michael & Irene — "*Mammals of Australia*", published by Australian Universities Press Pty. Ltd, Sydney, 1974,
  - Ride, W. D. L. — "*A Guide to the Native Mammals of Australia*", published by Oxford University Press, Melbourne, 1970,
  - Serventy, Vincent — "*Wildlife of Australia*", published by Thomas Nelson (Australia) Ltd., Melbourne, 1968 (revised edition 1977),
  - Serventy, Vincent (editor) — "*Australia's Wildlife Heritage*", published by Paul Hamlyn Pty. Ltd., Sydney, 1975

[분류:주머니하늘다람쥐과](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:주머니하늘다람쥐과 "wikilink") [분류:1883년 기재된 동물](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:1883년_기재된_동물 "wikilink")

1.  [Recovery of the Threatened Mahogany Glider](http://www.environment.gov.au/biodiversity/threatened/publications/recovery/mahogany-glider/pubs/mahogany-glider.pdf)  — Australian Government publication .pdf file