> This article is converted from Wikipedia: [스벤 리](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/스벤_리).


**스벤 리**(, [1969년](../Page/1969년.md "wikilink") [2월 21일](../Page/2월_21일.md "wikilink")\~)는 한국계 독일 의사이다(한 때 매스컴을 통해 안과전문의로 소개되었으나, 독일 의대를 졸업하고 의학석사와 의학박사 학위를 취득하였을 뿐 안과 전문의는 아닌 것으로 밝혀졌다). 스벤 리는 [시력교정수술](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/시력교정수술 "wikilink") 중 [라섹](../Page/라섹.md "wikilink")을 [시술](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/시술 "wikilink")하는 레이저 장비(MEL80) 소프트웨어(ASA80) 개발 연구에 참여한 것으로 보인다.\[1\]. 의학계에 미친 공로를 인정받아 [2004년](../Page/2004년.md "wikilink") 유럽연합(EU) 은빛훈장을 수여\[2\] 받았다. [ASA라섹](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASA라섹 "wikilink")은 [ASA80 소프트웨어를](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASA80_소프트웨어 "wikilink") 이용하여 [시술](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/시술 "wikilink")하는 진보된 라섹으로 [각막](../Page/각막.md "wikilink") [절삭](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/절삭 "wikilink")을 최소화하고, [개인](../Page/개인.md "wikilink")의 안구 형태를 고려한 맞춤식 시력교정이 가능한 수술\[3\]이다. [2010년](../Page/2010년.md "wikilink")에는 미국백내장굴절학회(American Society of Cataract and Refractive Surgery)에서 최고논문상을 수상\[4\]하였으며, 미국백내장굴절학회(ASCRS)에서 심사위원으로 활동\[5\]하고 있다.

## 가족 관계

[스벤 리는](../Page/스벤_리.md "wikilink") [1969년](../Page/1969년.md "wikilink") [독일](../Page/독일.md "wikilink") [라인란트팔츠주](../Page/라인란트팔츠주.md "wikilink") [마인츠](../Page/마인츠.md "wikilink")에서 [파독간호사](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/파독간호사 "wikilink")의 대부이자 [소아과](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/소아과 "wikilink") [의사](../Page/의사.md "wikilink")인 이수길 박사의 2남 2녀 중 차남으로 태어났다.

## 학창 시절

University of Hannover의 의학 박사 시절부터 [시력교정수술](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/시력교정수술 "wikilink")로 [부작용](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/부작용 "wikilink")을 앓고 있는 [환자](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/환자 "wikilink")에 대한 관심을 가졌고, 치료 기술 개발을 위해 연구에 착수했다. 안구 부작용 치료를 위해서는 비구면인 [각막](../Page/각막.md "wikilink")을 구면으로 만들 수 있는 초정밀 레이저 제어 기술이 필요하였고, 해당 분야에 대한 연구를 진행하였다. [thumb](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/파일:EU_silver_award.jpg "wikilink")

## ASA라섹의 개발

[2002년](../Page/2002년.md "wikilink") [에카르트 슈뢰더](../Page/에카르트_슈뢰더.md "wikilink") 연구팀은 맞춤식 [시력교정수술](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/시력교정수술 "wikilink")을 가능하게 하는 [ASA80 소프트웨어를](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASA80_소프트웨어 "wikilink") 개발하였고, 이를 이용한 [라섹 수술을](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/라섹_수술 "wikilink") [ASA라섹](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASA라섹 "wikilink")(Advanced Surface Ablation Lasek)이라 명하였다. [2003년](../Page/2003년.md "wikilink") 유럽백내장굴절학회(European Society of Cataract and Refractive Surgery)에서 해당 연구에 대해 발표하였다.

## 유럽 연합(European Union) 은빛 훈장 수여

개인의 각막 형태에 따라 제어가 가능한 [ASA80 소프트웨어와](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASA80_소프트웨어 "wikilink") [ASA라섹](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASA라섹 "wikilink")이라는 진보된 수술법을 개발한 공로를 인정받아 [2004년](../Page/2004년.md "wikilink") 유럽연합(EU) 은빛훈장을 수여받았다. [thumb](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/파일:Horst&Hans&sven.jpg "wikilink")

## 세계안과학회 심사위원 활동

미국백내장굴절학회(ASCRS) 시력교정수술 부문 심사위원으로 활동하며 [전 세계에서](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/전_세계 "wikilink") 제출되는 관련 논문에 대한 심사를 담당하였다.([2006년](../Page/2006년.md "wikilink"), [2009년](../Page/2009년.md "wikilink"), [2010년](../Page/2010년.md "wikilink"))

## 기술 연구 개발

[2008년](../Page/2008년.md "wikilink")부터 [독일](../Page/독일.md "wikilink") 물리학 박사 [에카르트 슈뢰더](../Page/에카르트_슈뢰더.md "wikilink")(Eckhard Schroeder), [영국](../Page/영국.md "wikilink")·[미국](../Page/미국.md "wikilink")·[캐나다](../Page/캐나다.md "wikilink") 의학 박사 [댄 라인슈타인](../Page/댄_라인슈타인.md "wikilink")(Dan Reinstein), [남아프리카 공화국](../Page/남아프리카_공화국.md "wikilink") 의학 박사 [셀릭 퍼시 아모일즈](../Page/셀릭_퍼시_아모일즈.md "wikilink")(Selig Percy Amoils)와 함께 시력교정 기술관련 공동 연구를 진행 중이다.

## 발표 논문

  - Painfree PRK with fast visual Recovery. *ESCRS in Nice, France. 2002*
  - Cooling techniques during PRK. *ESCRS in Nice, France. 2002*
  - Cooling during PRK. *AAO and ISRS in Orlando, USA. 2002*
  - Painfree PRK with fast visual Recovery. *AAO and ISRS in Orlando, USA. 2002*
  - Painfree PRK with fast Visual Recovery. *ASCRS in Philadelphia, USA. 2002*
  - New Cooling techniques during PRK. *ELEOS in Strasbourg, France. 2002*
  - Advanced Surface Ablation (ASA80) in Excimer Laser Refractive Surgery. *ESCRS in Munich, Germany. 2003*
  - Comparison of First Clinical Results of the Advanced Surface Ablation (ASA80) with the MEL80 vs. MEL70. *Zeiss Symposia in Munich, Germany. 2003*
  - Where is the limit for successful and safe Hyperopic Surface Ablation? Statistical analysis of 237 treated eyes. *ESCRS in Barcelona, Spain. 2004*
  - Where is the limit for successful and safe Myopic Surface Ablation? Statistical analysis of 556 treated eyes. *ESCRS in Barcelona, Spain. 2004*
  - Customized correction of spherical aberrations (Zernike (\* 0)) with the Advanced Surface Ablation using the MEL80 (ASA80). *ESCRS in Barcelona, Spain. 2004*
  - Wavefront guided correction of Presbyopia. *ESCRS in Barcelona, Spain. 2004*
  - Comparative Study of Treatment of the Dry Eye Syndrome due to Disturbances of the Tear Film Lipid Layer with Lipid-Containing Tear Substitutes Efficacy of lipid-containing tear substitutes. *ESCRS in Paris, France. 2004*
  - Where is the limit for successful and safe Hyperopic Surface Ablation? Statistical analysis of 237 treated eyes. *ESCRS in Paris, France. 2004*
  - Where is the limit for successful and safe Myopic Surface Ablation? 3-Year-Follow-Up. Statistical analysis of 446 treated eyes. *ESCRS in Paris, France. 2004*
  - Advanced Surface Ablation (ASA80). A new approach to Excimer-Laser-Surface Ablation for the correction of myopia. Statistical comparison with standard PRK. *ESCRS in Paris, France. 2004*
  - Wavefront guided correction of Presbyopia with Advanced Surface Ablation using the MEL 80 (ASA80). 2-9 months follow-up. *ESCRS in Paris, France. 2004*
  - Customized correction of spherical aberrations (Zernike (\* 0) with the Advanced Surface Ablation using the MEL80 (ASA80). *Zeiss Symposia in Barcelona, Spain. 2004*
  - Wavefront guided correction of Presbyopia with Advanced Surface Ablation using the MEL 80 (ASA80). 2-9 months follow-up. *Zeiss Symposia in San Diego, USA. 2004*
  - Wavefront guided correction of Presbyopia with Advanced Surface Ablation using the MEL 80 (ASA80). 12 months follow-up. *Zeiss Symposia in New Orleans, USA. 2004*
  - Wavefront guided correction of Presbyopia with Advanced Surface Ablation using the MEL 80 (ASA80). 12 months follow-up. *AAO and ISRS in New Orleans, USA. 2004*
  - Where is the limit for successful and safe Hyperopic Surface Ablation? Statistical analysis of 237 treated eyes. *ASCRS in San Diego, USA. 2004*
  - Where is the limit for successful and safe Myopic Surface Ablation? 3-Year-Follow-Up. Statistical analysis of 446 treated eyes. *ASCRS in San Diego, USA. 2004*
  - Advanced Surface Ablation (ASA80). A new approach to Excimer-Laser-Surface Ablation for the correction of myopia. Statistical comparison with standard PRK. *ASCRS in San Diego, USA. 2004*
  - Wavefront guided correction of Presbyopia with Advanced Surface Ablation using the MEL 80 (ASA80). 2-9 months follow-up. *ASCRS in San Diego, USA. 2004*
  - Panelist in Session 2-J: Keratorefractive Epi-Lasik, Lasik, PRK. *ASCRS in San Diego, USA. 2004*
  - A new therapy concept with a liposome eye spray for the therapy of the "dry eye". *First clinical results of a statistical analysis of a long-term study. DOG in Berlin, Germany. 2004*
  - Where is the limit for successful and safe myopic surface ablation? Statistical Analysis of 556 treated eyes. *AAD in Duesseldorf, Germany. 2004*
  - Wavefront Guided Correction of Presbyopia with ASA80: 2 years follow up. *Zeiss Symposia in Chicago, USA. 2005*
  - Advanced Surface Ablation (ASA80) today. *International MEL80 Symposium in Bangkok, Thailand. 2005*
  - Statistical Analysis of Presbyopia Treatments. *International MEL80 Symposium in Bangkok, Thailand. 2005*
  - Clinical aspects and patient selection for presbyopia treatments. *International MEL80 Symposium in Bangkok, Thailand. 2005*
  - Presbyopia Correction with the MEL \* Statistical Analysis of Clinical Outcomes. *AAO and ISRS in Chicago, USA. 2005*
  - Complications and Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathia. *DOG in Berlin, Germany. 2005*
  - New Advances in Cataract Surgery today. *DOG in Berlin, Germany. 2005*
  - Wavefront guided correction of Contrast Sensitivity, Mesopic Contrast Sensitivity and Presbyopia with Advanced Surface Ablation using the MEL 80 (ASA80®). *The 7th Refractive Symposium at the Catholic University in Seoul, Korea. 2005*
  - Altering Zernike Polynomials to Correct Presbyopia and Quality of Vision Results (ASA80). *ASCRS in San Francisco, USA. 2006*
  - Wavefront Guided Correction of Presbyopia, Contrast Sensitivity and Mesopic Contrast Sensitivity: 2 Year Follow up. *ASCRS in San Francisco, USA. 2006*
  - Panelist in Session 4-C: Wavefront, New Technology. *ASCRS in San Francisco, USA. 2006*
  - Comparative study of the therapy of dry eye syndrome with artificial tear substitutes especially for the treatment of the disturbance of the lipid layer. *SOE Congress in Berlin, Germany. 2006*
  - Comparative study of the therapy of dry eye syndrome with artificial tear substitutes especially for the treatment of the disturbance of the lipid layer. *Chinese Academy of Sciences in Shanghai, China. 2006*
  - Presbyopia Correction with the MEL80 Using ASA80®/ASA Lasek®: Statistical Analysis of clinical outcomes: 3 year follow-up of a Multicenter Study. *Turkish Refractive Surgery Symposium in Antalya, Turkey. 2006*
  - Correction of Presbyopia and Contrast Sensitivity with the MEL 80 Using ASA80®/ASA Lasek®: Statistical Analysis of clinical outcomes. 3 year follow-up of a Multicenter Study. *APAO in Singapore, Singapore. 2006*
  - New aspheric profiles with alternated Zernike Polynomials to improve Presbyopia and Night Vision Problems, esp. in high myopic patients with Advanced Surface Ablation (ASA-Lasek). *ESCRS in Stockholm, Sweden. 2007*
  - Wavefront Guided Correction of Presbyopia, Contrast Sensitivity, Mesopic Contrast Sensitivity with Advanced Surface Ablation (ASA80): 3 year follow-up. *ESCRS in Stockholm, Sweden. 2007*
  - Advanced Surface Ablation using a Spot-Scanning-Excimer Laser (ASA80): Statistical Comparison of results with standard laser profiles and new aspheric ablation profiles with altered Zernike Polynomials. *ESCRS in Stockholm, Sweden. 2007*
  - Creating monovision on the non-dominant eye for the correction of presbyopia by altering Zernike Polynomials. A new approach: 1 year follow-up. *ESCRS in Berlin, Germany. 2008*
  - Treatment of high myopia and hyperopia with wavefront-guided advanced-surface-ablation (ASA-Lasek®). Increasing the depth-of-field with aspheric-shoffiles: 2 year-follow-up. *ESCRS in Berlin, Germany. 2008*
  - Wavefront-Guided Correction of Presbyopia, Contrast Sensitivity, and Mesopic Contrast Sensitivity with Advanced Surface Ablation: Four-Year Follow-up. *ASCRS in Berlin, Germany. 2008*
  - Design of New Aspheric Ablation Profiles with Modified Zernike Polynomials to Improve Presbyopia and Night Vision Problems. *ASCRS in Chicago, USA. 2008*
  - Micromonovision on the non-dominant eye for the correction of presbyopia by altering Zernike Polynomials: new approach - 2 years follow-up. *ESCRS in Barcelona, Spain. 2009*
  - Presbyopia correction with AcrySof ReSTOR, CustomVue monovision, and wavefront-guided monofocal ablation: comparative analysis. *ESCRS in Barcelona, Spain. 2009*
  - Statistical comparison of presbyopia correction with wavefront-guided advanced surface ablation, CustomVue monovision LASIK, and multifocal ReSTOR IOLs. *ESCRS in Barcelona, Spain. 2009*
  - Correction of high refractive errors with wavefront-guided advanced-surface-ablation (ASA-LASEK): increasing the depth-of-field with aspheric-shoffiles- 3 year follow-up. *ESCRS in Barcelona, Spain. 2009*
  - Creating Micromonovision in the Nondominant Eye for the Correction of Presbyopia by Altering Zernike Polynomials: Eighteen-Month Follow-up. *ASCRS in San Francisco, USA. 2009*
  - Treatment of High Myopia and Hyperopia with Wavefront-Guided Advanced Surface Ablation Increasing the Depth-of-Field with Aspheric Shotfiles: Three-Year Follow-up. *ASCRS in San Francisco, USA. 2009*
  - Approaches to Presbyopia Correction: Comparative Analysis of Wavefront-Guided Monofocal Ablation, Multifocal IOLs, and Monovision: Two-Year Results. *ASCRS in Boston, USA. 2010*
  - Wavefront Correction of High Refractive Errors with Aspheric Shotfiles to Increase Depth-of-Field ASA LASEK: Three-Year Results. *ASCRS in Boston, USA. 2010*

## 각주

<references/>

[분류:1969년 태어남](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:1969년_태어남 "wikilink") [분류:살아있는 사람](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:살아있는_사람 "wikilink") [분류:대한민국의 의사](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:대한민국의_의사 "wikilink")

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.