> This article is converted from Wikipedia: [알브레크트 알트](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/알브레크트_알트).


**알브레크트 알트** (Albrecht Alt, 1883년 9월 20 일– 1956년 4월 24일 )는 [독일](../Page/독일.md "wikilink")의 [개신교](../Page/개신교.md "wikilink") [신학](../Page/신학.md "wikilink")자 였다. [루터란](../Page/루터교.md "wikilink") 학자로 구약신학과 고고학분야에서 활동한 신학자였다.

[오른쪽](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/파일:Albrecht_Alt_Gravestone.jpg "wikilink")

## 작품

  - *Der Gott der Väter: Ein Beitrag zur Vorgeschichte der israelitischen Religion*, Stuttgart: Kohlhammer, 1929, (Beiträge zur Wissenschaft vom Alten und Neuen Testament; 48 = Folge 3, H. 12). Translation of the title: 'The God of the fathers. A contribution to the prehistory of Israelite religion'.
  - *Der Stadtstaat Samaria*, Berlin: Akademie-Verlag, 1954, (Berichte über die Verhandlungen der Sächsischen Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Leipzig, Philologisch-historische Klasse; vol. 101,5). Translation of the title: 'The city state of Samaria'.
  - *Die Herkunft der Hyksos in neuer Sicht*, Berlin: Akademie-Verlag, 1954, (Berichte über die Verhandlungen der Sächsischen Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Leipzig, Philologisch-historische Klasse; vol. 101,6). Translation of the title: 'A New View on the origin of the Hyksos'.
  - *Essays on Old Testament history and religion* \[Kleine Schriften zur Geschichte des Volkes Israel. Auswahl in einem Band (besides the first edition of 1959 in 2 vols.), Berlin: Evangelische Verlags-Anstalt, 1962; English\], R.A. Wilson (trl.), Oxford: Blackwell, 1966, 274 pp.
  - "Origins of Israelite law" \[Die Ursprünge des israelitischen Rechts, Leipzig: Hirzel, 1934, (Berichte über die Verhandlungen der Sächsischen Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Leipzig, Philologisch-Historische Klasse; vol. 86,1); English\], in: Albrecht Alt, *Essays on Old Testament history and religion*, R.A. Wilson (trl.), Oxford: Blackwell, 1966, pp. 101–171.
  - *Völker und Staaten Syriens im frühen Altertum*, Leipzig: Hinrichs, 1936, (Der alte Orient: gemeinverständliche Darstellungen; vol. 34,4). Translation of the title: 'Peoples and states of Syria in early antiquity'.
  - *Where Jesus worked: Towns and villages of Galilee studied with the help of local history* \[Stätten des Wirkens Jesu in Galiläa territorialgeschichtlich betrachtet (1949); English\], Kenneth Grayston (trl.), London: Epworth Press, c1961.

## 같이 보기

  - [월터 아이크롯트](../Page/월터_아이크롯트.md "wikilink")

## 참고 문헌

  - H. Bardtke: "Albrecht Alt. Life and work"; Article in: ThLZ 81 (1956); P. 513-522.

  - Matthias Köckert: "God the Father and promises. An argument with Albrecht Alt and his inheritance"; (Research for the religion and literature of the old person and new will 142); Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht: Goettingen 1988; .

  -
  - R. Smend: "German Old Testament over three centuries"; Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht: Goettingen 1989; .

  - Manfred Weippert: "Albrecht Alt"; Article in: TRE 2 (1978), P. 303-305.

## 외부 링크

  - Works by or about Albrecht Alt at Internet Archive

[분류:라이프치히 대학교 동문](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:라이프치히_대학교_동문 "wikilink") [분류:1956년 죽음](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:1956년_죽음 "wikilink") [분류:1883년 태어남](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:1883년_태어남 "wikilink") [분류:루터교 신학자](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:루터교_신학자 "wikilink")