> This article is converted from Wikipedia: [앙리 드 뤼박](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/앙리_드_뤼박).


**앙리 드 뤼박** (Henri-Marie Joseph Sonier de Lubac SJ,  ; Henri de Lubac, 1896년 2월 20일 – 1991년 9월 4일)은 [가톨릭 교회의](../Page/로마_가톨릭교회.md "wikilink") [추기경](../Page/추기경.md "wikilink")이 된 [프랑스](../Page/프랑스.md "wikilink") [예수회](../Page/예수회.md "wikilink") 사제였으며 20 세기의 가장 영향력있는 [신학](../Page/신학.md "wikilink")자중 한 명으로 여겨진다. 그의 저술과 교리학은 [제 2 차 바티칸 공의회](../Page/제2차_바티칸_공의회.md "wikilink") 를 형성하는 데 중요한 역할을했다.

## 참고 문헌

  - Publication of de Lubac's *Oeuvres completes* (50 vols; Paris: Cerf, 1998-), in progress.

  - *Catholicisme: les aspects sociaux du dogme*, (Paris, 1938: seven editions were published, the last in 1983), translated as *Catholicism*, trans. Sheppard, L. & Englund, E, (London: Longman Green, 1950), and later reissued as *Catholicism: Christ and the Common Destiny of Man,* (San Francisco: Ignatius Press, 1988).

  - *Corpus Mysticum: Essai sur L'Eucharistie et l’Église au moyen âge*, (Paris, 1944), translated as *Corpus Mysticum: The Eucharist and the Church in the Middle Ages*, trans Gemma Simmonds with Richard Price and Christopher Stephens, (London, 2006).

  - , (Paris, 1944), translated as *The Drama of Atheist Humanism,* trans. Riley, M., Nash, A. & Sebanc, M., (San Francisco: Ignatius Press, 1995 − translation of the 1983 edition including chapters omitted from the 1949 translation).

  - *De la Connaissance de Dieu,* (Paris, 1945). A greatly expanded version of this book later appeared under the title *Sur les chemins de Dieu*, (Paris, 1956); this later work was translated as *The Discovery of God*, trans Alexander Dru with Mark Sebanc and Cassian Fulsom, (Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans, 1996).

  - *Surnaturel: Études historiques*, (1946). A new French edition issued by (Paris: Desclée de Brouwer, 1991) contains a complete translation into French of all Greek and Latin citations. There is not yet (2013) an English translation. However, *Augustinianism and modern theology* (1967) closely follows Part One of *Surnaturel,* and the conclusion is translated by David Coffey in *Philosophy and Theology,* 11:2, (1999), 368-80.

  - *Histoire et esprit: l'intelligence de l'Écriture d'apres Origene*, (Paris, 1950), translated as *History and Spirit: The Understanding of Scripture According to Origen*, trans. Anne Englund Nash with Juvenal Merriell*,* (San Francisco: Ignatius Press, 2007).

  - *Aspects du bouddhisme*, (Paris, 1951), translated as *Aspects of Buddhism*, trans George Lamb, (London: Sheed and Ward, 1953).

  - *Rencontre du bouddhisme et de l'occident*, (Paris, 1952).

  - *Méditation sur l'Église*, (Paris, 1953), translated as *The Splendor of the Church*, trans Michael Mason, (London: Sheed & Ward, 1956), and later reissued by (San Francisco: Ignatius Press, 1986).

  - *Aspects du bouddhisme,* vol 2: *Amida*, (Paris: Seuil, 1955), translated as *History of Pure Land Buddhism,* trans. Amita Bhaka,*Buddha Dhyana Dana Review,* 12: 5-6 (2002); 13: 1, (2003).

  - *Exégèse médiévale*, 4 vols, (Paris, 1959, 1961, 1964), translated as *Medieval Exegesis*, trans. Mark Sebanc (vol i), Edward M Macierowski (vols ii and iii), 4 vols, (Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans, 1998-).

  - *Teilhard de Chardin: the man and his meaning,* trans. Rene Hague, (New York: Hawthorn Books, 1965).

  - *Augustisme et théologie moderne*, (Paris, 1965), translated as *Augustinianism and Modern Theology*, (London: G Chapman; New York: Herder & Herder, 1969), and reissued as (New York: Crossroad, 2000).

  - *Le Mystere du surnaturel,* (1965), translated as *The Mystery of the Supernatural,* trans. Rosemary Sheed, (London: G Chapman, 1967), new edition by (New York: Crossroad Publishing Company, 1998).

  - *The religion of Teilhard de Chardin*,trans. Rene Hague, (New York: Desclee Co.,1967).

  - *Teilhard explained,* trans. Anthony Buono, (New York: Paulist Press,1968).

  - *The Eternal Feminine: a study on the poem by Teilhard de Chardin,* trans. René Hague, (New York: Harper & Row,1971).

  - *Petite catéchese sur nature et grace*, (Paris, 1980), translated as *A Brief Catechesis on Nature and Grace,* trans. Richard Arnauder, FSC, (San Francisco: Ignatius Press. 1984).

  - *Trois jésuites nous parlent: Yves de Montcheuil,1899-1944, Charles Nicolet,1897-1961, Jean Zupan, 1899-1968*, (Paris, 1980), translated as *Three Jesuits speak: Yves de Montcheuil,1899-1944, Charles Nicolet,1897-1961, Jean Zupan, 1899-1968.* *Presented by Henri de Lubac*, trans. by K. D. Whitehead, (San Francisco: Ignatius Press, 1987).

  - *The Motherhood of the Church*, trans. Sergia Englund, (San Francisco: Ignatius Press, 1982).

  - *Paradoxes of Faith*. trans. Simon, P., Kreilkamp, S., & Beaumont, E., (San Francisco: Ignatius Press. 1987).

  - *The Christian Faith: an essay on the structure of the Apostles' Creed*, trans. Richard Arnandez, (San Francisco: Ignatius Press, 1986).

  - *At the Service of the Church: Henri de Lubac reflects on the circumstances that occasioned his writings*, trans. Anne Englund Nash, (San Francisco: Ignatius Press, 1993).

  - *Theology in History*, trans. Anne Englund Nash, (San Francisco: Ignatius Press, 1996).

  - *More Paradoxes*. trans. A. Nash. (San Francisco: Ignatius Press. 2002 *−* a translation of *Autres Paradoxes.*

## 추가 읽기

  -

## 외부 링크

  - [Henri de Lubac의 IgnatiusInsight.com 약력](http://www.ignatiusinsight.com/authors/henridelubac.asp)

  - [Ignatius Press가 출판 한 Henri de Lubac 책](http://www.ignatiusinsight.com/authors/henridelubac.asp#delubacbooks)

  - [Henri de Lubac 프로필과 Goodreads 관련 서적](http://www.goodreads.com/author/show/289375.Henri_de_Lubac)

  -
[분류:제2차 바티칸 공의회 참가자](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:제2차_바티칸_공의회_참가자 "wikilink") [분류:프랑스의 제2차 세계 대전 관련자](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:프랑스의_제2차_세계_대전_관련자 "wikilink") [분류:프랑스의 제1차 세계 대전 참전 군인](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:프랑스의_제1차_세계_대전_참전_군인 "wikilink") [분류:프랑스의 추기경](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:프랑스의_추기경 "wikilink") [분류:1991년 죽음](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:1991년_죽음 "wikilink") [분류:1896년 태어남](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:1896년_태어남 "wikilink")