> This article is converted from Wikipedia: [  ](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/__).


이 문서는 1970년대 이후 **[애플의](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/애플_\(기업\) "wikilink") 슬로건**에 대한 목록이다. 현재 애플이 가장 많이 쓰는 슬로건은 [Get a Mac](../Page/Get_a_Mac.md "wikilink") 혹은 간단히 [애플 로고를](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/애플_로고 "wikilink") 쓴다.

## 회사 광고 모토

  - "Byte into an Apple" (1970년대 후반)\[1\]\[2\]
  - "Soon there will be 2 kinds of people. Those who use computers, and those who use Apples." (1980년대 초반)\[3\]\[4\]
  - "The Power to Be Your Best" (1990)\[5\]\[6\]\[7\]
  - "[Think Different](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/Think_Different "wikilink")" (1997 \~ 2002)\[8\]\[9\]\[10\]
  - "The Computer for the rest of us" (1984)\[11\]\[12\]
  - "Switch" (2002-2003)\[13\]

## 제품 슬로건 목록

### 애플 I

  - "Apple introduces the first low cost microcomputer system with a video terminal and 8K bytes of RAM on a single PC card\!"\[14\]

### 애플 II

  - "Introducing Apple II"\[15\]
  - "Original Apple II"
  - "What every educator should know about desktop computers."
  - "The home computer that's ready to work, play and grow with you."
  - "We're looking for the most original use of an Apple since Adam" Promoting a user-submission essay contest
  - "A is for Apple"
  - "How to buy a Personal Computer"
  - "Welcome IBM. Seriously."
  - "What's the 'e' stand for?"
  - "What kind of man owns his own computer?"

### 매킨토시

  - "It takes minutes of practice to make Macintosh do this."
  - "Introducing Macintosh. What makes it tick. And talk."
  - "It does more, It costs less. It's that simple"
  - "Of the 235 million people in America, only a fraction can use a computer... Introducing Macintosh. For the rest of us." - [뉴스위크](../Page/뉴스위크.md "wikilink") 20면 팸플릿에서[1](http://toastbucket.com/apple1984ad/)

### 아이맥, 아이북, 맥 미니

  - "iThink, therefore iMac." (1998) [르네 데카르트에서](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/르네_데카르트 "wikilink") 인용 "나는 생각한다, 고로 존재한다." ([Cogito ergo sum](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cogito_ergo_sum "wikilink"))
  - "Hello. Again." (1998)
  - "The iMac to Go." (1999)
  - "Where did the computer go?" (2004)
  - "From the creators of iPod." (2004)
  - "The most affordable Mac ever." (2005)
  - "Now showing. The new iMac G5" (2005)
  - "Small is Beautiful" (2006)
  - "The new, all-in-one iMac"
  - "You can't be too thin, Or too powerful." (2007)
  - "A little Mini. A lot of Leopard"(2007)
  - "The ultimate all-in-one. Now shipping with Leopard" (2007)
  - "More Power. Thinly disguised."
  - "Beauty. Brains. And now more brawn."
  - "The all-in-one for everyone."
  - "Faster. Greener. Still mini."
  - "Brilliance, squared."
  - "Small is huge."
  - "It’s a good time to be a desk."
  - "The ultimate all-in-one. Now with the ultimate display."
  - "The new, mightier mini."
  - "Redesigned in a very big way."

### 파워 맥, 파워북, 맥북, 맥북 에어, 맥북 프로

  - "The plot thins" (1999)
  - "Two Brains are better than one" (2000)
  - "Rips through digital video faster than Pentiums can say "uncle"."
  - "Less is more" (2003)
  - "The world's fastest computer" (2003)
  - "Sends other UNIX boxes to /dev/null" (2003)
  - "Higher Resolution. Better Mileage" (2005)
  - "Meet the family. Now complete." (2006)
  - "Power Mac G5. The power of four." (2006)
  - "Everything<sup>2</sup>" (2006)
  - "Same lovable MacBook. New lovable speed." (2007)
  - "Vroom with a View" (2007)
  - "State-of-the-art meets state-of-the-art.
  - "Same lovable MacBook. New amazing OS. MacBook now shipping with Leopard" (2007)
  - "There's something in the air" (2008)
  - "Thinnovation" (2008)
  - "Book smart" (2008)
  - "Nimble, meet quick." (2008)
  - "Rapid transit" (2008)
  - "Meet the next generation of notebooks." (2008)
  - "Redesigned. Reengineered, Re-everythinged." (2008)
  - "The new MacBook Air. Better graphics. More storage. Yet still the world’s thinnest notebook." (2009)
  - "Thin as always. Faster than ever." (2009)
  - "An even quicker study." (2009)
  - "The new [MacBook Pro](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/맥북_프로 "wikilink") family." (2009)
  - "The notebook you love. In a whole new edition" (2009)
  - "The fastest, most powerful MacBook Pro ever. Times three." (2010)

### 아이팟

  - "1,000 songs in your pocket." (2001)
  - "Introducing the new iPod family." (2002)
  - "7,500 songs in your pocket." (2003)
  - "Mini. The next big thing." (2004)
  - "Teeny doesn't mean weeny." (2004)
  - "The best keeps getting better" (2004)
  - "10,000 songs in your pocket." (2004)
  - "Paint it black." (2004)
  - "Life is random." (2005)
  - "\*Do not eat iPod shuffle" (2005)
  - "Give chance a chance." (2005)
  - "Random is the new order." (2005)
  - "Enjoy uncertainty." (2005)
  - "1,000 songs. Impossibly small." (2005)
  - "One more thing..." (2005)
  - "Watch your music" (2005)
  - "15,000 songs. 25,000 photos. 80 hours of video." (2005)
  - "Give music." (2005)
  - "The best digital jukebox and \#1 music download store. Now with video." (2005)
  - "Which iPod are you?" (2006)
  - "Home stereo. Reinvented." (2006)
  - "Back for an encore." (2006)
  - "Tune your run." (2006)
  - "Completely remastered." (2006)
  - "Clip and go." (2006)
  - "Put some music on." (2006)
  - "Movies, TV shows, games, and music. Now playing on an iPod near you." (2006)
  - "Put a different kind of change in your pocket." (2006)
  - "Put a thousand thanks in their pocket." (2006)
  - "Put some color on." (2006)
  - "Give the gift of iPod." (2006)
  - "Meet the best iPods ever." (2007)
  - "A little video for everyone." (2007)
  - "Hold everything." (2007)
  - "A new gig for iPod shuffle" (2008)
  - "Now there's even more to touch." (2008)
  - "Play more than music. Play a part." (2008)
  - "Everybody Touch" (2008)
  - "What's new to touch" (2008)
  - "Tap into what's new" (2008)
  - "Now there's even more to touch" (2008)
  - "Pump up the volume. iPod Touch Now in 32GB"
  - "So much to touch." (2008)
  - "Get your groove on. In four new colors" (2008)
  - "nano-chromatic" and "Rockalicious" (2008)
  - "One size fits all."(2009)
  - "The funnest iPod ever"(2009)
  - "Millions of songs. Thousands of videos. Hundreds of games."
  - "Small Talk."(2009)
  - "Next level fun."(2009)
  - "Nano Shoots Video."(2009)
  - "Your Top 40,000." (2010)

### 아이튠즈

  - "Rip. Mix. Burn." (2001)
  - "Rock and Roll will never die. It is, however, being reborn." (2003)
  - "The best Windows app ever." (2003)
  - "Hell Froze Over." (2003)
  - "Welcome to the digital music revolution." (2004)
  - "Drink. Win. Play." (2005)
  - "Welcome to the entertainment center of your world." (2006)
  - "Give the gift of music for the holidays." (2006)
  - "The entertainment center of your world." (2007)
  - "American Idol on iTunes." (2008)
  - "Discover iTunes 8. Rediscover your music."
  - "iTunes 8. The entertainment capital of your world"
  - "That's entertainment."

### 인텔

  - "What's an Intel chip doing in a Mac? A whole lot more than it's ever done in a PC."
  - "Rosetta. The most amazing software you'll never see."
  - "Imagine the Possibilities."
  - "Faster now comes standard." (2006)
  - "Better than ever" (2008)

### 아이폰

  - "The internet in your pocket."
  - "Touching is believing"
  - "hello"
  - "[iPhone](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/iPhone "wikilink") Apple reinvents the phone"
  - "Say Hello to [iPhone](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/iPhone "wikilink")"
  - "Talk about big. iPhone now in 16GB. More music. More video. More iPhone." (2008)
  - "The iPhone you've been waiting for." (2008)
  - "The first phone to beat the iPhone." (2008)
  - "Twice as fast, for half the price" (2008)
  - "The most advanced mobile OS. Now even more advanced." (2009)
  - "25,000 apps. And counting." (2009)
  - "The fastest, most powerful iPhone yet." (2009)
  - "This changes everything. Again" (2010)
  - "It's the most amazing iPhone yet."(2011)
  - "The biggest thing to happen to iPhone since iPhone."(2012)
  - "You're more powerful than you think."(2013)
  - "Forward Thinking"(2013)
  - "For the Colorful"(2013)
  - "Bigger than Bigger"(2014)

### 앱스토어

  - "There's an app for just about anything"
  - "Applications unlike anything you’ve seen on a phone before."
  - "Your [iPhone](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/iPhone "wikilink") gets better with every new app."
  - "Over 200,000 ways to make iPhone even better."

### 애플 TV

  - "YouTube, Meet Apple TV" (2007) Used currently on the iPod+iTunes homepage.
  - "If it's on iTunes, it's on your widescreen TV." (2007).
  - "Movie rentals and much more." used to market the [Apple TV](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple_TV "wikilink").
  - "Now Playing: HDTV shows and more." used to market the [Apple TV](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple_TV "wikilink").
  - "Even More to Do" (2008) market Apple TV

### 맥 OS X

  - " It just works".\[16\]
  - "It's the biggest thing to happen to Macintosh since the Macintosh" (2001)
  - "The future is here" (2001)
  - "Wildly innovative"
  - "The evolution of the species"
  - "Change your stripes"
  - "Redmond, start your photocopiers." (2006)
  - "Redmond, we have a problem." (2006)
  - "This should keep Redmond busy." (2006)
  - "Introducing Longhorn." (2006)
  - "Add a new Mac to your Mac" (2007)
  - "Hello, Tomorrow" (2007)
  - "Go Beyond Vista: It's Time to Get a Mac." (2007)
  - "The Next Big Things"
  - "Rock Solid Foundations"
  - "It's Here. It's Real. It's Amazing."
  - "Leopard, Every One's an Ultimate."
  - "Core innovation"
  - "The world's most advanced operating system. Finely tuned."
  - "Completely new. Completely Mac"

### 맥 OS X 서버

  - "Leopard Server. Simply Powerful." (2007)
  - "Connecting your business."
  - "New features. New ways to collaborate. Simpler than ever."

### 맥 프로

  - "Room to grow. Introducing Mac Pro" (2006)
  - "Life Made Easier" (2006)
  - "64-bit Quad Xeon. Introducing Mac Pro"(2008)
  - "The new Mac Pro. Tower of 8-core power." (2008)
  - "Start your engines. All eight of them"(2008)
  - "Expand at will." (2008)
  - "Beauty outside. Beast inside." (2009)

### 맥

  - "Internet Essentials for your Mac" (2004)

### 모바일미

  - "Exchange for the rest of us" (2008)
  - "The simple way to keep everything in sync." (2008)
  - "Push email, push contacts, push calendar. Everything in sync. Anywhere you are" (2009)

### 아이패드

  - "A magical and revolutionary device at an unbelievable price." (2010)
  - "It just feels right to hold the internet in your hands"
  - " It's Faster, Times 2" (2011)
  - " It's Resolutionary" (2012)

## 인용

<references/>

[분류:애플의 광고](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:애플의_광고 "wikilink")

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14. <http://www.dvq.com/misc/images/apple.pdf>
15. [1977: Introducing Apple II | Flickr - Photo Sharing\!](http://www.flickr.com/photos/jeangenie/131229792/)
16.