> This article is converted from Wikipedia: [지협쥐속](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/지협쥐속).


**지협쥐속** 또는 **파나마쥐속**(*Isthmomys*)은 [비단털쥐과](../Page/비단털쥐과.md "wikilink")에 속하는 [설치류](../Page/설치류.md "wikilink") 속의 하나이다.\[1\] 2종을 포함하고 있다.

## 하위 종

  - [노랑지협쥐](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/노랑지협쥐 "wikilink") (*Isthmomys flavidus*)
  - [피리산지협쥐](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/피리산지협쥐 "wikilink") (*Isthmomys pirrensis*)

## 각주

  - Anthony, H. E. 1916. Panama Mammals Collected in 1914-1915. Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural History 35: 357-377.
  - Bangs, Outram. 1902. Chiriqui Mammalia: *Megadontomys flavidus*. Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard College 8: 27-29.
  - Carleton, M. D. 1980. Phylogenetic relationships in neotomine-peromyscine rodents (Muroidea) and a reappraisal of the dichotomy within New World Cricetinae.
  - Cuartas-Calle, Carlos Auturo and Javier Muñoz-Arango. 2003. Lista de los Mamiferos (Mammalia: Theria) del departamento de Antioquia, Colombia. Biota Colombiana 4, no. 1: 65-78.
  - Goldman, Edward. 1912. New Mammals from Eastern Panama. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 60, no. 2: 1-18.
  - Goldman, Edward. 1920. Mammals of Panama. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 69, no. 5.
  - Goodwin, George G. 1946. Mammals of Costa Rica. Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural History 87, no. 5.
  - Hall, E.R. and K.R. Kelson. 1958 The Mammals of North America. New York: Ronald Press Co.
  - Handley, Charles. 1966. Checklist of the Mammals of Panama. In Ectoparasites of Panama, ed. Wenzel and Tipton:753-796. Chicago, Illinois: Field Museum of Natural History.
  - Hooper, Emmet T. and Guy Musser. 1964. Notes on the classification of the rodent genus *Peromyscus*. Occasional Papers of the Museum of Zoology, University of Michigan, no. 635.
  - Linzey, Alicia and James N. Layne. 1974. Comparative morphology of spermatozoa of the rodent genus *Peromyscus* (Muridae). American Museum Novitates, no. 2532.
  - Linzey, Alicia and James N. Layne. 1969. Comparative morphology of the male reproductive tract in the rodent genus *Peromyscus* (Muridae). American Museum Novitates, no. 2355: 1-46.
  - Middleton, John R. 2007. A Systematic Revision of Genus *Isthmomys* (Rodentia: Cricetidae). Masters Thesis, Texas Tech University, Lubbock Texas.
  - Musser, G. G. and M. D. Carleton. 2005. Superfamily Muroidea. pp. 894–1531 *in* Mammal Species of the World a Taxonomic and Geographic Reference. D. E. Wilson and D. M. Reeder eds. Johns Hopkins University Press, Baltimore.
  - Stangl, F. B. and R. J. Baker. 1984. Evolutionary relationships in *Peromyscus*: congruence in chromosomal, genic, and classical data sets. Journal of Mammalogy 65, no. 4: 643-654.

[분류:숲쥐아과](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:숲쥐아과 "wikilink")

1.  Musser, G. G. and M. D. Carleton. 2005. Superfamily Muroidea. pp. 894–1531 *in* Mammal Species of the World a Taxonomic and Geographic Reference. D. E. Wilson and D. M. Reeder eds. Johns Hopkins University Press, Baltimore.