> This article is converted from Wikipedia: [:](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/:).


**DONGKIZ** (Korean: 동키즈; in abbreviation **DKZ**) is a South Korean boy group formed by Dongyo Entertainment in 2018. The group released their first pre-debut album on November 21, 2018 with *NOM*.

## History

### 2018: Pre-debut

Dongyo Entertainment introduced their trainees in 2018. Wondae was the first member to have been introduced, and Munik, Jaechan, Jong Hyeong, and Kyoung Yoon were introduced. They were first called Dongyo Rookies and on September 1, 2018 the company introduced the group name "Dongkiz" through SNS. The group's name refers to **"the Kids"** rising from "**the East** (which is 동(dong) in Korean)**"** to the world. Dongkiz became the first boy group of Dongyo Entertainment to be produced.



**School Tours and Busking**

Since August 2018 to February 2019, Dongkiz visited over 20 festivals of different schools in Korea and introduced the group to the students. Also, they had busking (street performances) near Hongdae in 2018\[1\].



**Commercials**

The leader of the group, Wondae, filmed the commercials of [LANEIGE](../Page/라네즈.md "wikilink") (Korean cosmetics brands) commercials with COSMOLITAN, the magazine brand, on November 2019. Munik also filmed the commercials of [LG U+](../Page/LG유플러스.md "wikilink") (One of the top Korean Telecommunications company) with [CHUNG HA (청하)](../Page/청하_\(가수\).md "wikilink").



**Concerts**

Dongkiz was invited to HEC Korea Concert in 2018 held in Bangkok, Thailand. The event was planned in commemoration of 60th anniversary of diplomatic relationship between Korea and Thai government and many top Kpop artists were invited, including [Wanna One(워너원)](../Page/워너원.md "wikilink"), [Pentagon(펜타곤)](../Page/펜타곤_\(음악_그룹\).md "wikilink"), [Monsta X (몬스타엑스)](../Page/몬스타엑스.md "wikilink") and others. The group's appearance on the stage was very meaningful as they were the only pre-debut group to have been invited. Dongkiz had an opening stage for the event\[2\].

They were also invited to Jakarta Charity Concert in 2018 with [K.A.R.D(카드)](../Page/카드_\(음악_그룹\).md "wikilink"). The event was held to help those who suffered from Indonesian earthquake and Dongkiz donated their appearance fee to help the Indonesian people\[3\].



**Fan Meeting**

Dongkiz held four fan events at [Dal.Kkom Coffee (달콤커피)](../Page/달콤커피.md "wikilink"). Members made coffee and beverages for the fans themselves as baristas and had a short talk with the fans\[4\].



**Cover Dance Videos**

They began promotion with cover dances. Their choreography videos of BTS (방탄소년단) - Fake Love, Pentagon (펜타곤) - 빛나리 (Shine), Big Bang (빅뱅) - Bang Bang Bang, Gambino - This is America and many others are available at their Youtube channel. Their videos became viral with their collaboration with dance Youtube Channels like Artbeat, and Viva Dance Studio\[5\].



**SNS Channels**

Dongkiz members continue to communicate with the fans through SNS. They have quite a number of videos and photos available at their SNS Channels.

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Title</p></th>
<th><p>details</p></th>
<th><p>SNS Channel</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Dongkiz Cam</strong></p></td>
<td><p>The self-cams of Dongkiz members Contents : The day of Dongkiz / Christmas Special, etc.</p></td>
<td><p>Youtube</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Dongkiz Movie</p></td>
<td><p>Special videos of Dongkiz Contents : Choreography video / Behind of special days, etc.</p></td>
<td><p>Youtube</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dongkiz Clip</p></td>
<td><p>Short videos of Dongkiz playing themselves</p></td>
<td><p>Youtube</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Mention Party</p></td>
<td><p>Q &amp; A of Dongkiz Members reply directly to the fans questions</p></td>
<td><p>Twitter</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Selfies/ Photos</p></td>
<td><p>-</p></td>
<td><p>Twitter Instagram</p>
<p>Naver Post</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### 2019–present: Debut

The group is expected to have their official debut in 2019, and the date has not been announced yet.




## Members

The information derived from their interview with Arirang TV <Pops in Seoul>

  - **WONDAE (원대)** - Leader
      - Birthdate : 1998. 04. 20
      - Fun facts : High School Choir (tenor)
      - Special Talents : English, rap
      - Experiences :
          - Laneige X Cosmopolitan Commercial



  - **KYOUNG YOON (경윤)**
      - Birthdate : 2000. 02. 21
      - Fun facts : Track and field athlete in middle school, created the band club in middle school
      - Special Talents : Martial arts tricking, Acrobatics, Jujitsu

<!-- end list -->

  - **MUNIK (문익)**
      - Birthdate : 2001. 03. 20
      - Fun facts : Kendo 2-dan, prize at a dance competition
      - Special Talents : dance, aegyo
      - Experiences :
          - LG U+ Commercial



  - **JAECHAN (재찬)**
      - Birthdate : 2001. 12. 06
      - Fun facts : prize at a music composition contest (Korea Arts Conservatory)
      - Special Talents : Drawing characters, composing, Chinese



  - **JONG HYEONG (종형)**
      - Birthdate : 2002. 04. 13
      - Fun facts : Vice President in Elementary School, Third place at a municipal speed skating competition, prize at a dance competition
      - Special Talents : Girl group dance, good at guessing the members' hands by shaking their hands without seeing

## Albums

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Title</p></th>
<th><p>Album details</p></th>
<th><p>Peak chart positions</p></th>
<th><p>Sales</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Nom</p></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Released: November 21, 2018</li>
<li>Label: Dongyo Entertainment</li>
<li>Formats: digital download, streaming audio</li>
<li>Music Video</li>
</ul></td>
<td><p>-</p></td>
<td><p>-</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>



## Concerts

| Year                                         | Album details                | Venue             | Date                                              | Artists              |
| -------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------- | ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- |
| 2018                                         | Tik Tok Gala Show - Seoul    | D Bridge, Seoul   | November 11, 2018                                 | Weki Meki - Yoo Jung |
| 2018 HEC Korea Concert                       | Thamaasaat Bangkok, Thailand | November 17, 2018 | Wanna One, Pentagon, Monsta X, The Boyz, Teen Top |                      |
| Charity Concert For Palu, Sigi, and Donggala | The Kasablanka Hall          | November 30, 2018 | Golden Child, K.A.R.D., Dongkiz                   |                      |
|                                              |                              |                   |                                                   |                      |


\==Commercials==

| Title                     | Album details                      | Appearance |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------- | ---------- |
| 2018                      | LANEIGE X COSMOPOLITAN skin Lotion | Wondae     |
| LG U + \<My Own 3D Star\> | Chung Ha, Dongkiz                  |            |
|                           |                                    |            |


\== 각주 ==

<references />

## External links

  - Twitter [1](http://www.twitter.com/dongkiz_dy)
  - Instagram [2](https://instagram.com/dongkiz_dy)
  - Fan Cafe [3](https://cafe.daum.net/DONGKIZ)
  - Youtube [4](https://www.youtube.com/dongyoent)

<!-- end list -->

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.