> This article is converted from Wikipedia: [ ](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/_).


**카린 마아그**(Karin Maag)는 미국 [캘빈 신학교에](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/캘빈_신학교 "wikilink") 있는 [헨리미터 센터](../Page/헨리미터_센터.md "wikilink") (H. Henry Meeter Center for Calvin Studies)에서 1997년부터 연구소 소장이며 그 대학의 역사학 교수이다. 그녀는 [장 칼뱅의](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/장_칼뱅 "wikilink") 작품과 관련된 작품들에 대한 수집으로 유명하다. 취미로는 자전거타기와 역사적 픽션 독서와 합창이다. 모든일에 리더십이 강한 학자이다. 2019년 부터 [세계칼빈학회](../Page/세계칼빈학회.md "wikilink")(International Congress on Calvin Research)에 새 회장으로 선임되었다. [섬네일](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/파일:Karin_Maag_\(AMJ\).jpg "wikilink")

## 학력

  - B.A., Western Society and Culture/Religion, Concordia University, 몬트리올
  - M.Phil., Renaissance and Reformation History, University of Saint Andrews, 스콧트랜드
  - Ph.D., Reformation History, University of Saint Andrews, 스코트랜드

## 외부 링크

  - [Dr. Karin Maag, Calvin College](https://calvin.edu/directory/people/karin-maag)

## 출판물

### 도서

  - Does the Reformation Still Matter? in Calvin Shorts by Karin Maag Published: December 15, 2016 ISBN: 978-1-937555-23-8 eBook ISBN: 978-1-937555-24-5
  - Lifting Hearts to the Lord: Worship with John Calvin in Sixteenth-Century Geneva in The Church at Worship (CAW)

by Karin Maag Published: January 9, 2016 ISBN: 978-0-8028-7147-3

  - Seminary or University? The Genevan Academy and Reformed Higher Education. St Andrews Studies in Reformation History, Aldershot, 1995.

### 편저

  - Politics, Gender, and Belief: The Long-Term Impact of the Reformation. Edited by Amy Nelson Burnett, Kathleen Comerford, and Karin Maag. Geneva: Droz, 2013
  - Worship in Medieval and Early Modern Europe: Change and Continuity in Religious Practice. University of Notre Dame Press, 2004.
  - Melanchthon in Europe: His Work and Influence beyond Wittenberg. Baker Bookhouse, 1999.
  - The Reformation in Eastern and Central Europe. St Andrews Studies in Reformation History, Aldershot, 1996.

### 번역서

  - On Time, Punctuality, and Discipline in Early Modern Calvinism by Max Engammare. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2010.
  - John Calvin and the Printed Book by Jean-François Gilmont (Translation). Sixteenth Century Essays and Studies, 2005.
  - Translation and English Edition. The Reformation and the Book. St Andrews Studies in Reformation History. Aldershot, 1998.

### 논문

  - “A Debated Office: Deacons in the Huguenot Church, 1560-1660” in Emancipating Calvin: Culture and Confessional Identity in Francophone Reformed Communitiesedited by Karen Spierling, Erik de Boer and Ward Holder. Leiden: Brill, 2018
  - Permeable Borders: Cross-Confessional Encounters and Traditions in Reformation Geneva” in Semper Reformanda: John Calvin, Worship and Reformed Traditionsedited by Barbara Pitkin. Goettingen: Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht, 2018.
  - Impact amid absence: the Synod of Dordt and the French Huguenots” In die Skriflig52/2 (2018) <https://doi.org/10.4102/ids.v52i2.2340>

The Place and Image of Luther in Calvinist/Reformed Historiography” in Luther and Calvinism: Image and Reception of Martin Luther in the History and Theology of Calvinism edited by Herman Selderhuis and J. Marius J. Lange van Ravenswaay (Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht, 2017)

  - No Better Songs”: John Calvin and the Genevan Psalter in the Sixteenth Century and Today” The Hymn: A Journal of Congregational Song 68/4 (2017): 28-33

Schools and Education, 1500-1600” in A Companion to the Swiss Reformation edited by Amy Nelson Burnett and Emidio Campi (Brill, 2016)

  - Calvin’s Impact in Elizabethan England” in Calvinus Pastor Ecclesiae: Papers of the Eleventh International Congress on Calvin Research (Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht, 2016)
  - Pulpit and Pen: Pastors and Professors as Shapers of the Huguenot Tradition” in A Companion to the Huguenots edited by Raymond Mentzer and Bertrand van Ruymbeke (Brill, 2016)
  - The Reformation and Higher Education” in Protestantism after 500 Years edited by T. A. Howard and Mark Noll (Oxford University Press, 2016)
  - Geneva and the Myth of the Escalade” Archiv für Reformationsgeschichte 106 (2015): 273-89
  - "Theodore Beza.” The Expository Times (November 2014): 1-9
  - “From Professors to Pastors: the Convoluted Careers of Jean Diodati and Théodore Tronchin.” In Church and School in Early Modern Protestantism: Studies in Honor of Richard A. Muller on the Maturation of a Theological Tradition, edited by Jordan Ballor, David Sytsma, and Jason Zuidema. Leiden: Brill, 2013.
  - “Getting Engaged: The Joys of Studying History.”In Practically Human: College Professors Speak from the Heart of Humanities Education, (edited by Gary Schmidt and Matthew Walhout. Grand Rapids: Calvin Press, 2012.
  - “Catechisms and Confessions of Faith.” In T\&T Clark Companion to Reformation Theology, edited by David Whitford. London: T\&T Clark, 2012.
  - “Calvin 2009: the results.” In Calvin Clarissimus Theologus: Papers of the Tenth International Congress on Calvin Research, edited by Herman Selderhuis. Göttingen: Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht, 2012).
  - "Strong Roots for a Vibrant Future." In Reformed Mission in an Age of Reformed Christianity: Ideas for the 21st Century. Edited by Shirley Roels. Calvin Press, 2011.
  - "Calvin as the Ideal Teacher." In Saint or Sinner? The Reformation of John Calvin (1509-1564). Edited by Herman Selderhuis. Mohr Siebeck, 2010.
  - "John Calvin after 500 years: Life and Impact" \[review article\]. Sixteenth Century Journal 41/1 (2010): 122-30.
  - "Calvin research: tools, institutions and the state of research" and "Calvin and Students." In The Calvin Handbook. Edited by Herman Selderhuis. Eerdmans, 2009.

[분류:미국의 대학 교수](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:미국의_대학_교수 "wikilink") [분류:미국의 역사가](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:미국의_역사가 "wikilink") [분류:장 칼뱅 연구가](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:장_칼뱅_연구가 "wikilink") [분류:칼빈 칼리지 교수](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:칼빈_칼리지_교수 "wikilink")