> This article is converted from Wikipedia: [헤르만 리델보스](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/헤르만_리델보스).


**헤르만 니콜라스 리델보스**(Herman Nicolaas Ridderbos, [1909년](../Page/1909년.md "wikilink") 2월 13일 - [2007년](../Page/2007년.md "wikilink") 3월 8일)는 [네덜란드](../Page/네덜란드.md "wikilink")의 신학자이며 [성경](../Page/성경.md "wikilink")의 학자였다. 그는 저명한 신약학자로서 [구원사](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/구원사 "wikilink")(Heilsgeschichte)와 [성경신학](../Page/성경신학.md "wikilink") 분야에서 큰 영향을 끼쳤다. 그는 네덜란드 [프리슬란트주](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/프리슬란트주 "wikilink") 이스터린에서 태어났다. 그의 아버지 [얀 리델보스는](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/얀_리델보스 "wikilink") [네덜란드 개혁교회의](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/네덜란드_개혁교회 "wikilink") 목사였으며 성경주석가이자 [캄펜 신학교에서](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/캄펜_신학교 "wikilink") 구약학자였다. 그는 [암스테르담 자유 대학교에서](../Page/암스테르담_자유_대학교.md "wikilink") 크로쉐데(F. W.  Grosheide) 지도아래 박사학위를 1936년에 받았다. 논문은 마태복음의 산상설교의 취지였다\[The Tenor of the Sermon on the Mount according to Matthew\]. [네덜란트 프로테스탄트교회소속으로](../Page/네덜란드_프로테스탄트교회.md "wikilink") 8년 동안 목회를 하였고 1943년 캄펜 신학교에서 세클 그래다니우스(Seakle Greijdanus )의 후임으로 신약신학을 40년 이상 강의했다.\[1\]Gereformeerde Weekblad의 편집국장을 역임했으며, 대표적인 책은 『하나님 나라』, 『바울과 예수』, 『마태복음강해』 등이 있다.

## 성경신학의 관점

그는 성경신학이라는 용어보다 '구속사적 신학'이라는 용어를 선호하였다.\[2\]

## 작품

  - *De strekking der Bergrede naar Mattheüs*. \[The Tenor of the Sermon on the Mount according to Matthew\] Kampen: J. H. Kok, 1936. \[This was his PhD dissertation.\]
  - *Het Evangelie naar Mattheüs I*. \[The Gospel to Matthew I\] Korte Verklaring der Heilige Schrift. Kampen: J. H. Kok, 1941.
  - *Het Evangelie naar Mattheüs II*. \[The Gospel to Matthew II\] Korte Verklaring der Heilige Schrift. Kampen: J.H. Kok, 1946.
  - *Zelfopenbaring en zelfverberging*. Het historisch karakter van Jezus’ messiaansche zelfopenbaring volgens de synoptische evangeliën. \[Self-revelation and Self-concealment: The Historical Character of Jesus’ Messianic Self-revelation according to the Synoptic Gospels\] Kampen: J. H. Kok, 1946.
  - *De komst van het Koninkrijk. Jezus’ prediking volgens de synoptische evangeliën*. Kampen: J. H. Kok, 1950.
  - *The Coming of the Kingdom*, edited by Raymond O. Zorn, translated by H. de Jongste. Philadelphia: Presbyterian and Reformed, 1962 \[1969\]. 556 pp.
  - *Paulus en Jezus. Oorsprong en algemeen karakter van Paulus’ Christus-prediking*. Kampen: J. H. Kok, 1952.
  - *Paul and Jesus*: Origin and General Character of Paul’s Preaching of Christ, translated by David H. Freeman. Philadelphia: Presbyterian and Reformed, 1958. 155 pp.
  - *The Epistle of Paul to the Churches of Galatia*, translated by Henry Zylstra. The New International Commentary on the New Testament. Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 1953 \[1968, 1970, 1976, 1981\]. 238 pp.
  - “Israël in het Nieuwe Testament, in het bijzonder volgens Rom. 9 – 11” \[“Israel in the New Testament, especially according to Rom. 9 – 11”\] in G. Ch. Aalders and H. Ridderbos, Israël, 23 – 73. Exegetica. Oud- en nieuw-testamentische studiën II, 2; Den Haag: Van Keulen, 1955.
  - *Heilsgeschiedenis en Heilige Schrift van het Nieuwe Testament*. Het gezag van het Nieuwe Testament. Kampen: J. H. Kok, 1955.
  - *The Authority of the New Testament Scriptures*, translated by H. de Jongste. Philadelphia: Presbyterian and Reformed, 1963. 93 pp.
  - *Redemptive History and the New Testament Scriptures*, translated by H. De Jongste, revised by Richard B. Gaffin, Jr. Phillipsburg, NJ: Presbyterian and Reformed, 1968; 2nd Rev. ed., 1988. 91 pp.
  - *When the Time Had Fully Come: Studies in New Testament Theology*. Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 1957. 104 pp.
  - *Het verborgen Koninkrijk*. Handleiding tot het Evangelie van Mattheüs. Kampen: J. H. Kok, 1958.
  - *Matthew’s Witness to Jesus Christ: The King and the Kingdom*. World Christian Books 23. London: Lutterworth Press, 1958.
  - *Aan de Romeinen*. Commentaar op het Nieuwe Testament. \[To the Romans\] Kampen: J. H. Kok, 1959.
  - *Bultmann*, translated by David H. Freeman. Philadelphia: Presbyterian & Reformed, 1960. 46 pp.
  - *Aan de Efeziërs. Aan de Colossenzen*. Commentaar op het Nieuwe Testament. \[To the Ephesians. To the Colossians.\] Kampen: J. H. Kok, 1960. \*Authored by F. W. Grosheide.
  - The Speeches of Peter in the Acts of the Apostles. London: Tyndale Press, 1962 \[1977\]. 31 pp.
  - “Opbouw en strekking van de proloog van het evangelie van Johannes.” \[“The Structure and Scope of the Prologue to the Gospel of John”\] in Placita Pleiadia. Opstellen aangeboden aan Prof. Dr. G. Sevenster. Leiden: E. J. Brill, 1966. Also published in Novum Testamentum 8 (1966): 180 – 201.
  - *Paulus. Ontwerp van zijn theologie*. Kampen: J. H. Kok, 1966. 653 pp.
  - *Paul: An Outline of His Theology*, translated by John Richard De Witt. Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 1975 \[1997\]. 587 pp.
  - De Pastorale brieven. Commentaar op het Nieuwe Testament. \[The Pastoral Epistles\] Kampen: J. H. Kok, 1967.
  - *Het Woord, het Rijk en onze verlegenheid*. \[The World, the Kingdom, and Our Embarrassment\] Kampen: J. H. Kok, 1968. \[During the celebration of the 25th anniversary of his professorship in 1968, his colleagues presented him with a collection of a number of his articles and lectures.\]
  - “Tradition and Editorship in the Synoptic Gospels,” translated by E. R. Geehan.
  - In Jerusalem and Athens: Critical Discussions on the Theology and Apologetics of Cornelius Van Til, edited by E. R. Geehan, 244 – 59. Nutley, NJ: Presbyterian & Reformed, 1971. 498 pp.
  - *Die Psalmen. Ps 1-41*, Ed. Walter De Gruyter, 1972.
  - *Zijn wij op de verkeerde weg? Een bijbelse studie over de verzoening*. \[Are We on the Wrong Way? A Biblical Study of Reconciliation\] Kampen: J. H. Kok, 1972. \[Ridderbos was involved in a controversy about Herman Wiersinga’s dissertation De verzoening in de theologische diskussie \[Reconciliation in the Theological Discussion\] (Kampen: J. H. Kok, 1971). He wrote this as a response.\]
  - *Studies in Scripture and Its Authority*. Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 1978. 109 pp.
  - *Het Woord is vlees geworden. Beschouwingen over het eigen karakter van het Evangelie van Johannes* \[The Word Became Flesh: Reflections on the Unique Character of the Gospel of John\] Kampen: J. H. Kok, 1979.
  - *Het Evangelie naar Johannes. Proeve van een theologische exegese I – I*I. Kampen: J. H. Kok, 1987, 1992.
  - *The Gospel of John: A Theological Commentary*, translated by John Vriend. Grand Rapids; Cambridge: Eerdmans, 1997. 721 pp.
  - *Jan Ridderbos*. Mens. Kamper Miniaturen 4. Kampen: Vereniging van Oud-Studenten van de Theologische Universiteit Kampen, 1999.

## 각주 

[분류:1909년 태어남](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:1909년_태어남 "wikilink") [분류:2007년 죽음](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:2007년_죽음 "wikilink") [분류:네덜란드의 대학 교수](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:네덜란드의_대학_교수 "wikilink") [분류:암스테르담 대학교 동문](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:암스테르담_대학교_동문 "wikilink") [분류:개혁 신학자](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:개혁_신학자 "wikilink") [분류:개혁주의](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:개혁주의 "wikilink") [분류:성서학자](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:성서학자 "wikilink") [분류:해석학자](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:해석학자 "wikilink") [분류:네덜란드의 신학자](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:네덜란드의_신학자 "wikilink") [분류:성경 해석학자](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:성경_해석학자 "wikilink")

1.  Riemer Roukema, [Herman Ridderbos's Redemptive-historical Exegesis of the New Testament](http://www.riemerroukema.nl/downloads/RiemerRoukema-0144.pdf)
2.