> This article is converted from Wikipedia: [헤필드 대학교](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/헤필드_대학교).


**헤필드 대학교**(Hayfield University)는 [미국](../Page/미국.md "wikilink") [캘리포니아주](../Page/캘리포니아주.md "wikilink") [풀러턴에](../Page/풀러턴_\(캘리포니아주\).md "wikilink") 위치한 대학교이다. 오랜 역사의 Mt. Sinai College Seminary에서 1995년 현재의 헤필드 대학교로 학교 이름을 변경하였고. 설립자 겸 총장은 Benjamin Hong 박사가 현 헤필드 대학교를 대학교는 미연방교육국 산하 ABHE 협의회에 가입하고 미연방국 the I-20 and SEVIS I-901 유학비자 자체발급 학교이면 연방국유국 CHEA에 등록된 대학교입니다.

Hayfield University exists to provide understanding in the content and interpretation of the Word of God, an in-depth biblical philosophy of ministry, and detailed instruction in applied ministry skills. Our degree and certificate programs are designed to meet the needs of the student, balancing academic with flexibility and value. You can work toward your goals by earning a degree or certificate part time, at the pace that complements your life style. The HU is determined by three great central convictions: First, the Christian, as set forth in the Westminster Confession of Faith on the basis of Holy Scripture, is true; second, the Christian requires and is capable of scholarly exposition and defense; third, the Christian is founded upon Christian doctrine as set forth in the Word of GOD.

The Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) recognizes Hayfield University within its database of institutions and programs accredited by recognized U.S. Accrediting Organizations. This means, Hayfield Univerity has been reviewed by CHEA and meets the quality standards of the respective organizations.

`The primary purpose of CHEA recognition is to assure and strengthen academic quality and ongoing quality improvement in courses, programs and degrees.`

Hayfield University holds applicant status with the Association of Biblical Higher Education, 5850 T G Boulevard, Suite 130, Orlando, FL 32822; 407.207.0808; www.abhe.org. Applicant status is a pre-membership status granted to those institutions that meet the ABHE Conditions of Eligibility and that possess such qualities as may provide a basis for achieving candidate status within four years.

Hayfield University is authorized under Federal Law to enroll non-Immigrant alien students. In order to study at Hayfield University, a foreign student must first obtain a student visa from their local U.S. Embassy or Consulate. In order to obtain a student visa, the student must first register at Hayfield University and provide the school with a completed I-20 Application, $200 non-refundable Registration Fee, and proof of financial support. Upon receiving the required documents, we will issue you a completed I-20 with an Acceptance Letter. You must then take the I-20 and SEVIS I-901 fee receipt to your local embassy or consulate with your supporting financial documents.

## 학부

  - 음악대학
  - 교육대학
  - 신학대학
  - 신학대학원
  - 경영학대학원 M.B.A

## 외부 링크

  - [헤필드 대학교 공식 웹사이트](http://www.hayfieldun.org/)

[분류:캘리포니아주의 대학교](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/분류:캘리포니아주의_대학교 "wikilink")